Add 0.74 announcement post (#4043)
facebook/react-native-website: website/blog/2024-04-22-0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture.md

> ---

Reviewer: [nit] can we change the file name? I feel that a link like `/path/to/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture` is a bit verbose. The `<release_date>.0.74` bit is already enough to characterize the file. This will produce easier anchors.

Reviewer 2: I'm matching the slug format convention of our existing posts. We could shorten this to `0.74-announcement`.

The anchors are definitely fiddly 😅.

### Highlights

- [Yoga Improvements](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#yoga-improvements)
- [Preparing for the New Architecture](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#preparing-for-the-new-architecture)
- [Batched `onLayout` updates (New Architecture)](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#batched-onlayout-updates-new-architecture) (**breaking change**)
- [Removal of deprecated `PropTypes`](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#removal-of-deprecated-proptypes)
- [API Changes to PushNotificationIOS (Deprecated)](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#api-changes-to-pushnotificationios-deprecated)
- [Android SDK minimum bump (Android 6.0)](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#android-sdk-minimum-bump-android-60)
- [Yarn 3 for New Projects](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#yarn-3-for-new-projects)

### Breaking Changes

> - [Breaking Changes](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#breaking-changes)

Reviewer: [nit] isn't this a bit redundant? 
A title "Breaking Changes" and a bullet list with a single item "breaking changes". What about merging this in the highlights? At the end of the day, breaking changes are something to highlight!

Reviewer 2: It is, however this matches the last 2 announcement posts, with Breaking Changes being a section. Technically these are "Highlighted/Other Breaking Changes".

This time, we don't have any big breaking changes which warrant their own subheading (pending any CLI breaking changes).

Reviewer 2: Resolved by moving some features into Breaking Changes!

    flexDirection: 'row',
    backgroundColor: 'red',
    margin: 10,
    width: 200,
    height: 100,
  }}>
  <View
    style={{
      flexDirection: 'row-reverse',
      backgroundColor: 'blue',
      flex: 1,
      marginLeft: 50,
    }}>
    <View
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'green',
        height: '50%',
        flex: 1,
        marginLeft: 50,
      }}
    />
  </View>
</View>
```

</td>
<td>

![Previous layout](../static/blog/assets/0.74-row-reverse-before.png)

</td>
<td>

![New layout](../static/blog/assets/0.74-row-reverse-after.png)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

:::

#### Support for `align-content: 'space-evenly'`

[`alignContent: 'space-evenly'`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/align-content#space-evenly) distributes the lines in a multi-line flex container using evenly spaced gaps, placed between line and container edges.

<figure>
  <img alt="Visual reference for alignContent behaviours" src="/blog/assets/0.74-align-content.png" width="360" />
  <figcaption><small>Source: [World Wide Web Consortium](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-align-3/#distribution-values)</small></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Support for `position: 'static'` (New Architecture)

> Elements marked as [`position: 'static'`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#static) may not be offset, and are not considered when determining the [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) of an absolutely positioned element. This allows positioning an element relative to an ancestor which is not its direct parent.

Reviewer: so... did we explicitly decide to keep this New Architecture bit in the blogpost? Could I ask what's the rationale for this choice?

It might feel confusing for the users that we have:
- New Arch docs in the working group
- New Arch announcements in the working group
- This specific New Arch callout in the Blogpost

Reviewer 2: It's a soft decision from me — happy to be overridden with more context. However:
- This is a small section that's logically tied to the "Yoga improvements" theme.
- I think there's some value in highlighting, over time, that a subset of useful new features will be New Arch only.

Reviewer 3: I believe it makes sense to keep it here as we do have a collection of Yoga updates. I wouldn't scatter them between WG and blogpost, it makes more sense to have all of them here

  style={{
    backgroundColor: 'blue',
    width: 200,
    height: 200,
    flexDirection: 'row',
  }}>
  <View
    style={{
      backgroundColor: 'orange',
      width: 50,
      height: 50,
      left: 10,
      position: 'relative',
      zIndex: 10,
    }}
  />
  <View
    style={{
      backgroundColor: 'red',
      width: 50,
      height: 50,
      position: 'static',
    }}>
    <View
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'green',
        width: 25,
        height: 25,
        zIndex: 11,
        position: 'absolute',
      }}
    />
  </View>
</View>
```

</td>
<td width="300">

![Static zIndex Example](../static/blog/assets/0.74-zindex-example.png)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

React Native continues to default to `position: 'relative'` when no `position` is set.

### Preparing for the New Architecture

In this release, we are making **Bridgeless Mode the default when the New Architecture is enabled**. You can learn more about our switch to Bridgeless as the default [in this post](link_to_the_post). To make the transition smoother we enhanced the interop layers to cover Bridgeless and worked with several libraries to make sure they will work in Bridgeless from day one.

> Bridgeless is not the only interop layer we worked on: we improved the New Renderer Interop layer too! Check out the new features [here](link_to_the_post).

Reviewer 2: TODO: Post link @cipolleschi

Delete any usages of <code>[application:didRegisterUserNotificationSettings:](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiapplicationdelegate/1623022-application?language=objc)</code> and <code>RCTPushNotificationManager</code>’s corresponding <code>didRegisterUserNotificationSettings:</code> as well.

**Example:** See the RNTester <code>[AppDelegate.mm](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/packages/rn-tester/RNTester/AppDelegate.mm)</code>.

#### JS

1. Remove any references to `alertAction`.
2. Remove the `handler` argument on any calls to `removeEventListener`.
3. Replace any usages of `repeatInterval` by firing multiple notifications using `fireDate` or `fireIntervalSeconds` instead.
4. Note that `soundName` will be null when it is accessed on a `Notification` returned from `getScheduledLocalNotifications()` and `getDeliveredNotifications()`.

</details>

### Android SDK minimum bump (Android 6.0)

> React Native 0.74 has a minimum SDK version requirement of 23 (Android 6.0). See our justification for this change [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/740).

Reviewer 2: @cortinico I've drafted this, but you probably have more content to embellish this.

### Yarn 3 for New Projects

[Yarn 3](https://yarnpkg.com/blog/release/3.0) is now the default JavaScript package manager for new projects initialized with React Native Community CLI.

Yarn 3.x will be used with `nodeLinker: node-modules`, a mode providing compatibility with React Native libraries. This replaces Yarn Classic (1.x, deprecated) as the previous default. To upgrade Yarn version inside your existing app you can follow this [guide](https://yarnpkg.com/migration/guide).

```sh
$ yarn --help
━━━ Yarn Package Manager - 3.6.4 ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  $ yarn <command>
```

The Community CLI also supports initializing projects with other package managers via the `--pm` flag ([read more](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/blob/main/docs/init.md)).

> ## Breaking Changes

Reviewer 2: @thymikee @szymonrybczak Do we have any breaking RN CLI changes to highlight?

Reviewer 4: Nothing other than Yarn 3 that's already mentioned

These are some of the key breaking changes in 0.74. Please consult the [full changelog](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for the complete list of breaking changes.

- Remove web performance logging from `GlobalPerformanceLogger` ([#41299](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41299)).
- Make `start/end` in styles always refer to writing direction ([#42251](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42251)).

> - **Android**: Get rid of old APIs in `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).

Reviewer 5: This should mention JSIModule explicitly.

Reviewer 2: I've done this minimally, let me know if this needs further elaboration.

Reviewer 3: I've helped @huntie reword it, it should be good now

- **iOS**: Delete `configFilename` and `configKey` arguments from iOS codegen CLI ([#41533](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41533)).

> 

Reviewer: We need to add:
- **iOS**: changed how the [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/43994) is handled. Before, it was set when React Native was started in an instance variable and it was not possible to update it. Now, it takes a function (usually the [`bundleURL`(https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.74-stable/packages/react-native/template/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L22-L29)] from the AppDelegate) so the URL is re-evaluated when needed. This unblock the possibility to update the bundleURL across refreshes. This should affect your app only if you were changing the `bundleURL` variable after the app is started. In this case, move the logic that updates the variable to the `bundleURL` function in the `AppDelegate`.

  const [state1, setState1] = useState(false);
  const [state2, setState2] = useState(false);

  return (
    <View>
      <View
        onLayout={() => {
          setState1(true);
       }}>
      <View
         onLayout={() => {
          // When this event is executed, state1's new value is no longer observable here.
          setState2(true);
        }}>
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}
```

In 0.74, `setState1` and `setState2` updates are batched together. This change is [expected behavior in React](https://react.dev/learn/queueing-a-series-of-state-updates#react-batches-state-updates) and allows for less re-renders.

:::danger
This change **may break code** that has relied on un-batched state updates. You'll need to refactor this code to use [updater functions](https://react.dev/learn/queueing-a-series-of-state-updates#updating-the-same-state-multiple-times-before-the-next-render) or equivalent.
:::

### Android SDK minimum bump (Android 6.0)

React Native 0.74 has a minimum SDK version requirement of 23 (Android 6.0). See our justification for this change [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/740).

> #### Bonus: Android app size
> 
> Our Android updates in 0.74 have resulted in a ~3MB app size reduction (a near-10% device storage saving in an empty React Native app).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Bonus: Android app size reduction

The minimum SDK bump, together with several improvements at our native build, allowed us to greatly reduce the app size on user devices. 

For example a newly created app with React Native 0.74 occupies ~13% less space on user device, resulting in ~4Mb saved on device (see the attached screenshot).
```

> 

Reviewer 3: @huntie reminder to add the screenshot here

**Example:** See the RNTester <code>[AppDelegate.mm](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/packages/rn-tester/RNTester/AppDelegate.mm)</code>.

#### JS

1. Remove any references to `alertAction`.
2. Remove the `handler` argument on any calls to `removeEventListener`.
3. Replace any usages of `repeatInterval` by firing multiple notifications using `fireDate` or `fireIntervalSeconds` instead.
4. Note that `soundName` will be null when it is accessed on a `Notification` returned from `getScheduledLocalNotifications()` and `getDeliveredNotifications()`.

</details>

### Other Breaking Changes

These are some of the key breaking changes in 0.74. Please consult the [full changelog](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for the complete list of breaking changes.

- Remove web performance logging from `GlobalPerformanceLogger` ([#41299](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41299)).
- Make `start/end` in styles always refer to writing direction ([#42251](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42251)).

> - **Android**: Removal of `JSIModule*` from `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).
>   - This API was unused in open source — use [TurboModules](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/blob/main/docs/turbo-modules.md) instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Android**: Removal of `JSIModule*` from `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).
  - This API was unused in open source — use [TurboModules](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/blob/main/docs/turbo-modules.md) instead.
- **Android**: Deprecation of `UIManagerModule.showPopupMenu` and `UIManagerModule.dismissPopupMenu` ([#42441](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42441))
  - This API has been moved to the `@react-native/popup-menu-android` NPM package and will be removed in 0.75
```

- Remove web performance logging from `GlobalPerformanceLogger` ([#41299](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41299)).
- Make `start/end` in styles always refer to writing direction ([#42251](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42251)).
- **Android**: Removal of `JSIModule*` from `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).
  - This API was unused in open source — use [TurboModules](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/blob/main/docs/turbo-modules.md) instead.
- **Android**: Deprecation of `UIManagerModule.showPopupMenu` and `UIManagerModule.dismissPopupMenu` ([#42441](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42441))
  - This API has been moved to the `@react-native/popup-menu-android` NPM package and will be removed in 0.75
- **iOS**: Delete `configFilename` and `configKey` arguments from iOS codegen CLI ([#41533](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41533)).
- **iOS**: Changed how the [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/43994) is handled.

>   - Before, this was set when React Native was started in an instance variable and it was not possible to update it. Now, it takes a function (usually [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.74-stable/packages/react-native/template/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L22-L29) in AppDelegate) so the URL is re-evaluated when needed. This unblocks the possibility to update `bundleURL` across refreshes. This should affect your app only if you were changing the `bundleURL` variable after the app is started. In this case, move the logic that updates the variable to the `bundleURL` function in the `AppDelegate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Before, this was set when React Native was started in an instance variable and it was not possible to update it.
  - Now, it takes a function (usually [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.74-stable/packages/react-native/template/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L22-L29) in AppDelegate) so the URL is re-evaluated when needed. 
  - It unblocks the possibility to update `bundleURL` across refreshes. 
  - It should affect your app only if you were changing the `bundleURL` variable after the app is started. In this case, move the logic that updates the variable to the `bundleURL` function in the `AppDelegate`.
```

I think it will be nicer to read it if we structure it with more points

## Acknowledgements

React Native 0.74 contains over [1673 commits](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/compare/v0.73.6...v0.74.0) from 57 contributors. Thanks for all your hard work!

## Upgrade to 0.74

Please use the [React Native Upgrade Helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/) to view code changes between React Native versions for existing projects, in addition to the [Upgrading docs](/docs/upgrading).

To create a new project:

```sh
npx react-native@latest init MyProject
```

If you use Expo, React Native 0.74 will be supported in Expo SDK 51.

:::info

> 0.74 is now the latest stable version of React Native and **0.71.x moves to unsupported**. For more information see [React Native's support policy](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases#releases-support-policy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0.74 is now the latest stable version of React Native and **0.71.x moves to unsupported**. For more information see [React Native's support policy](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases#releases-support-policy).
We will do a last end-of-life update of 0.71 at the beginning of May.
```

Given the privacy manifest issue from Apple, it makes sense to call out that we will make a last update to 0.71 with the last picks in May. Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Yup that's fair 👍

---
title: 'React Native 0.74 - Yoga 3.0, New Architecture Improvements, and more'
authors: [hurali, alanjhughes, alfonsocj, huntie, cortinico]
tags: [announcement, release, yoga]
date: 2024-04-22
---

Today we're releasing React Native 0.74! This release adds Yoga 3.0, Bridgeless by default under the New Architecture, batched `onLayout` updates, and Yarn 3 as the default package manager for new projects.

> We are also actioning API removals for the deprecated `PropTypes` and `PushNotificationIOS` APIs. On Android, SDK 23 (Android 6.0) is now the minimum supported version.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We are also removing the deprecated `PropTypes` and `PushNotificationIOS` APIs. On Android, SDK 23 (Android 6.0) is now the minimum supported version.
```

Reviewer 2: Will revert this edit, but reword. `PushNotificationIOS` is *not* being removed (yet!).

> We are also actioning API removals for the deprecated `PropTypes` and `PushNotificationIOS` APIs. On Android, SDK 23 (Android 6.0) is now the minimum supported version.

Reviewer 2: I'll find a simpler alternative. Will need to revert "removing" in the meantime.

> ### Highlights

Reviewer 6: Making these heading makes the ToC duplicated:

<img width="327" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-19 at 1 53 29 PM" src="https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/assets/2440089/5cd7cd05-f51d-4b06-a4ed-722ef8496a38">

Reviewer 2: It does (sadly) (note: still linkable as `#highlights-1`), which isn't perfect. I'm preserving this structure to match previous release posts, and for the sake of a structured outline.

- [New Architecture: Bridgeless by Default](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#new-architecture-bridgeless-by-default)
- [New Architecture: Batched `onLayout` Updates](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#new-architecture-batched-onlayout-updates)
- [Android SDK minimum bump (Android 6.0)](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#android-sdk-minimum-bump-android-60)
- [Yarn 3 for New Projects](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#yarn-3-for-new-projects)

### Breaking Changes

- [API Changes to PushNotificationIOS (Deprecated)](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#api-changes-to-pushnotificationios-deprecated)
- [Removal of deprecated `PropTypes`](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#removal-of-deprecated-proptypes)
- [Other Breaking Changes](/blog/2024/04/22/0.74-yoga-improvements-preparing-for-the-new-architecture#other-breaking-changes)

<!--truncate-->

## Highlights

### Yoga 3.0

#### New Layout Behaviors

> React Native 0.74 includes [Yoga 3.0](https://yogalayout.dev/blog/announcing-yoga-3.0), the newest version of our layout engine, which enables more correct layout behavior. These changes make styling more predictable, and enable rendering components written for the web with greater fidelity.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
React Native 0.74 includes [Yoga 3.0](https://yogalayout.dev/blog/announcing-yoga-3.0), the newest version of our layout engine. Yoga 3.0 improves layout by making styling more predictable, and supports rendering components written for the web.
```

React Native intentionally preserves some incorrect layout behaviors, where fixing them was found to effect a signigicant number of real-world components. Layout conformance will be able to be configured more granularly in future versions of React Native.

> :::warning

Reviewer 6: Should this be `:::danger`?

> React Native [previously flipped](https://yogalayout.dev/blog/announcing-yoga-3.0#correct-handling-of-logical-edges-in-row-reverse-containers) `left`/`right` (and `start`/`end`) edges when dealing with `margin`, `padding`, or `border`, set on a `row-reverse` container. Code which previously relied on edges being inverted may need to be updated to continue rendering correctly.

Reviewer 6: Should this say that it now matched the Web behavior?

<table>
<tr>
  <th>Style</th>
  <th>Before</th>
  <th>After</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="350">

```jsx
<View
  style={{
    flexDirection: 'row',
    backgroundColor: 'red',
    margin: 10,
    width: 200,
    height: 100,
  }}>
  <View
    style={{
      flexDirection: 'row-reverse',
      backgroundColor: 'blue',
      flex: 1,
      marginLeft: 50,
    }}>
    <View
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'green',
        height: '50%',
        flex: 1,
        marginLeft: 50,
      }}
    />
  </View>
</View>
```

</td>
<td>

![Previous layout](../static/blog/assets/0.74-row-reverse-before.png)

</td>
<td>

![New layout](../static/blog/assets/0.74-row-reverse-after.png)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

:::

#### Support for `align-content: 'space-evenly'`

> Yoga 3.0 brings support for [`alignContent: 'space-evenly'`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/align-content#space-evenly). This mode distributes the lines in a multi-line flex container using evenly spaced gaps, placed between line and container edges.

Reviewer 6: afaik, "mode" is not a thing, it's a value for the property but you could clarify by restating the property name.

```suggestion
Yoga 3.0 brings support for [`alignContent: 'space-evenly'`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/align-content#space-evenly). `space-evenly` distributes the lines in a multi-line flex container using evenly spaced gaps, placed between line and container edges.
```

<figure>

>   <img alt="Visual reference for alignContent behaviours" src="/blog/assets/0.74-align-content.png" width="360" />

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  <img alt="Visual reference for alignContent behaviors" src="/blog/assets/0.74-align-content.png" width="360" />
```

  <figcaption><small>Source: [World Wide Web Consortium](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-align-3/#distribution-values)</small></figcaption>
</figure>

> #### Support for `position: 'static'` (New Architecture)

Reviewer 6: The note below states it's new architecture only already

```suggestion
#### Support for `position: 'static'`
```

<table>
<tr>
<td width="350">

```jsx
<View
  style={{
    backgroundColor: 'blue',
    width: 200,
    height: 200,
    flexDirection: 'row',
  }}>
  <View
    style={{
      backgroundColor: 'orange',
      width: 50,
      height: 50,
      left: 10,
      position: 'relative',
      zIndex: 10,
    }}
  />
  <View
    style={{
      backgroundColor: 'red',
      width: 50,
      height: 50,
      position: 'static',
    }}>
    <View
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'green',
        width: 25,
        height: 25,
        zIndex: 11,
        position: 'absolute',
      }}
    />
  </View>
</View>
```

</td>
<td width="300">

![Static zIndex Example](../static/blog/assets/0.74-zindex-example.png)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

React Native continues to default to `position: 'relative'` when no `position` is set.

### New Architecture: Bridgeless by Default

> In this release, we are making **Bridgeless Mode the default when the New Architecture is enabled**. You can learn more about our switch to Bridgeless as the default in this post (_coming soon_). To make the transition smoother we enhanced the interop layers to cover Bridgeless and worked with several libraries to make sure they will work in Bridgeless from day one.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this release, we are making **Bridgeless Mode the default when the New Architecture is enabled**. We will share more soon about our switch to Bridgeless as the default. To make the transition smoother we enhanced the interop layers to cover Bridgeless and worked with several libraries to make sure they will work in Bridgeless from day one.
```

> In this release, we are making **Bridgeless Mode the default when the New Architecture is enabled**. You can learn more about our switch to Bridgeless as the default in this post (_coming soon_). To make the transition smoother we enhanced the interop layers to cover Bridgeless and worked with several libraries to make sure they will work in Bridgeless from day one.

Reviewer 2: Unbolded ✅ (matches headline)

> Bridgeless is not the only interop layer we worked on: we improved the New Renderer Interop layer too!

Reviewer 6: I'd either say specifically how or drop this sentence.

<!-- TODO: Reinsert above - "Check out the new features [here](link_to_the_post)." -->

> Finally, if you want to learn more about the New Architecture in general, we moved the complete documentation from the React Native website to the [react-native-new-architecture repo](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/tree/main/docs).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To learn more about the New Architecture, we moved the complete documentation from the React Native website to the [New Architecture Working Group](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/tree/main/docs).
```

### New Architecture: Batched `onLayout` updates

State updates in `onLayout` callbacks are now batched. Previously, each state update in the `onLayout` event would result in a new render commit.

```jsx
function MyComponent(props) {
  const [state1, setState1] = useState(false);
  const [state2, setState2] = useState(false);

  return (
    <View>
      <View
        onLayout={() => {
          setState1(true);
       }}>
      <View
         onLayout={() => {
          // When this event is executed, state1's new value is no longer observable here.
          setState2(true);
        }}>
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}
```

In 0.74, `setState1` and `setState2` updates are batched together. This change is [expected behavior in React](https://react.dev/learn/queueing-a-series-of-state-updates#react-batches-state-updates) and allows for less re-renders.

:::danger
This change **may break code** that has relied on un-batched state updates. You'll need to refactor this code to use [updater functions](https://react.dev/learn/queueing-a-series-of-state-updates#updating-the-same-state-multiple-times-before-the-next-render) or equivalent.
:::

> ### Android SDK minimum bump (Android 6.0)

Reviewer 6: Should this be listed in the Breaking Changes section?

> React Native 0.74 has a minimum SDK version requirement of 23 (Android 6.0). See our justification for this change [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/740).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
React Native 0.74 has a minimum Android SDK version requirement of 23 (Android 6.0). See our context for this change [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/740).
```

> React Native 0.74 has a minimum SDK version requirement of 23 (Android 6.0). See our justification for this change [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/740).

Reviewer 2: Added

> Previously, this was Android 5.0 (API 21).

#### Bonus: Android app size reduction

The minimum SDK bump, together with several improvements at our native build, allowed us to greatly reduce the app size on user devices.

> For example a newly created app with React Native 0.74 occupies ~13% less space on user device, resulting in ~4Mb saved on device (see the attached screenshot).

Reviewer 7: Nit: "~4MB" instead of "~4Mb"

> For example a newly created app with React Native 0.74 occupies ~13% less space on user device, resulting in ~4Mb saved on device (see the attached screenshot).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For example a newly created app with React Native 0.74 occupies ~13% less space on user device, resulting in ~4MB saved on device (see the attached screenshot).
```

> For example a newly created app with React Native 0.74 occupies ~13% less space on user device, resulting in ~4Mb saved on device (see the attached screenshot).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
By bumping the minimum Android SDK version to 23, we were able to land optimizations to greatly reduce the app size on user devices. For a newly created app, React Native 0.74 occupies ~13% less space on user device, resulting in ~4Mb saved on device:
```

Also, where is the attachment?

Reviewer 3: On @huntie desktop 😅  Will arrive on Monday

### Yarn 3 for New Projects

[Yarn 3](https://yarnpkg.com/blog/release/3.0) is now the default JavaScript package manager for new projects initialized with React Native Community CLI.

Yarn 3.x will be used with `nodeLinker: node-modules`, a mode providing compatibility with React Native libraries. This replaces Yarn Classic (1.x, deprecated) as the previous default. To upgrade Yarn version inside your existing app you can follow this [guide](https://yarnpkg.com/migration/guide).

> ```sh

Reviewer 6: This snipped doesn't add much value, I would either include install instructions or drop this.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't, the aim was to provide a small visual for this item. I think it is also _**marginally useful**_ as a hint for people to run `yarn --help` to check what version they have in their current project.

Keeping unless there is further support to remove.

$ yarn --help
━━━ Yarn Package Manager - 3.6.4 ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  $ yarn <command>
```

The Community CLI also supports initializing projects with other package managers via the `--pm` flag ([read more](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/blob/main/docs/init.md)).

## Breaking Changes

### Removal of deprecated `PropTypes`

Before 0.74, React Native was continuing to ship with `PropTypes`, an API that had been deprecated since React 15.5 in 2017! The presence of this deprecated code incurs costs in app size and memory overhead for apps that follow best practices.

Starting in 0.74, React Native will no longer include the following `PropTypes` properties: `Image.propTypes`, `Text.propTypes`, `TextInput.propTypes`, `ColorPropType`, `EdgeInsetsPropType`, `PointPropType`, `ViewPropTypes` (see [commit](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/commit/228cb80af9ded20107f3c7a30ffe00e24471bfeb)).

> If your app or library relies on `PropTypes`, we highly recommend migrating to a type system like TypeScript. If you have trouble identifying the source of a deleted `PropTypes` usage, please [file an issue](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues) so we can help track it down with you.

Reviewer 2: Removed ✅

### API Changes to PushNotificationIOS (Deprecated)

In React Native 0.74, we are making steps to remove the deprecated [PushNotificationIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/pushnotificationios) library. The changes in this release are focused on removing references to older iOS APIs. PushNotificationIOS has been migrated onto Apple’s [User Notifications](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications?language=objc) framework and exposes new APIs for scheduling and handling notifications.

> In the next release (0.75), **we are planning to remove this library**, relocating it out of React Native core and into the community package, [@react-native-community/push-notification-ios](https://github.com/react-native-push-notification/ios). If you are still relying on PushNotificationIOS, you’ll need to migrate over before the next release.

Reviewer 2: I've reduced the bold *now only the substring "remove this library"). I think it's worth having this stand out to signal this major intended change, which is not otherwise signalled in the subheading.

> #### API Changes

Reviewer 6: It would be nice to include the deprecation warning messages in this section.

Delete any usages of <code>[application:didRegisterUserNotificationSettings:](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiapplicationdelegate/1623022-application?language=objc)</code> and <code>RCTPushNotificationManager</code>’s corresponding <code>didRegisterUserNotificationSettings:</code> as well.

**Example:** See the RNTester <code>[AppDelegate.mm](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/packages/rn-tester/RNTester/AppDelegate.mm)</code>.

#### JS

1. Remove any references to `alertAction`.
2. Remove the `handler` argument on any calls to `removeEventListener`.
3. Replace any usages of `repeatInterval` by firing multiple notifications using `fireDate` or `fireIntervalSeconds` instead.
4. Note that `soundName` will be null when it is accessed on a `Notification` returned from `getScheduledLocalNotifications()` and `getDeliveredNotifications()`.

</details>

### Other Breaking Changes

These are some of the key breaking changes in 0.74. Please consult the [full changelog](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for the complete list of breaking changes.

> - Remove web performance logging from `GlobalPerformanceLogger` ([#41299](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41299)).

Reviewer 8: This could seem scary to people using it, and the linked PR doesn't really have any information for people who might be using this what they should do instead. Did these APIs move somewhere else? Should people use a different approach? Perhaps comment on that PR with some details for readers.

Reviewer 2: @rshest Is this something you can follow up? :)

Reviewer 9: @huntie I suggest that we remove this line from the release notes altogether, as the change shouldn't affect the people's workflow, and it was more relevant to the internal experiments we were doing at the time.

- Make `start/end` in styles always refer to writing direction ([#42251](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42251)).
- **Android**: Removal of `JSIModule*` from `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).
  - This API was unused in open source — use [TurboModules](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/blob/main/docs/turbo-modules.md) instead.
- **Android**: Deprecation of `UIManagerModule.showPopupMenu` and `UIManagerModule.dismissPopupMenu` ([#42441](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42441))

>   - This API has been moved to the `@react-native/popup-menu-android` NPM package and will be removed in 0.75

Reviewer 8: Perhaps link to the npm package? https://www.npmjs.com/package/@react-native/popup-menu-android

> ### Other Breaking Changes
> 
> These are some of the key breaking changes in 0.74. Please consult the [full changelog](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for the complete list of breaking changes.
> 
> - Remove web performance logging from `GlobalPerformanceLogger` ([#41299](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41299)).
> - Make `start/end` in styles always refer to writing direction ([#42251](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42251)).
> - **Android**: Removal of `JSIModule*` from `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).
>   - This API was unused in open source — use [TurboModules](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/blob/main/docs/turbo-modules.md) instead.
> - **Android**: Deprecation of `UIManagerModule.showPopupMenu` and `UIManagerModule.dismissPopupMenu` ([#42441](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42441))
>   - This API has been moved to the `@react-native/popup-menu-android` NPM package and will be removed in 0.75
> - **iOS**: Delete `configFilename` and `configKey` arguments from iOS codegen CLI ([#41533](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41533)).
> - **iOS**: Changed how the [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/43994) is handled.
>   - Before, this was set when React Native was started in an instance variable and it was not possible to update it.
>   - Now, it takes a function (usually [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.74-stable/packages/react-native/template/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L22-L29) in AppDelegate) so the URL is re-evaluated when needed. 
>   - It unblocks the possibility to update `bundleURL` across refreshes. 
>   - It should affect your app only if you were changing the `bundleURL` variable after the app is started. In this case, move the logic that updates the variable to the `bundleURL` function in the `AppDelegate`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Other Breaking Changes

**General**
- Remove web performance logging from `GlobalPerformanceLogger` ([#41299](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41299)).
- Make `start/end` in styles always refer to writing direction ([#42251](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42251)).

**Android**
- Removal of `JSIModule*` from `FabricUIManagerProvider` ([#42059](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42059)).
  - This API was unused in open source — use [TurboModules](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/blob/main/docs/turbo-modules.md) instead.
- Deprecation of `UIManagerModule.showPopupMenu` and `UIManagerModule.dismissPopupMenu` ([#42441](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/42441))
  - This API has been moved to the `@react-native/popup-menu-android` NPM package and will be removed in 0.75
  
**iOS**
- Delete `configFilename` and `configKey` arguments from iOS codegen CLI ([#41533](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/41533)).
- Changed how the [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/43994) is handled.
  - Before, this was set when React Native was started in an instance variable and it was not possible to update it.
  - Now, it takes a function (usually [`bundleURL`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.74-stable/packages/react-native/template/ios/HelloWorld/AppDelegate.mm#L22-L29) in AppDelegate) so the URL is re-evaluated when needed. 
  - It unblocks the possibility to update `bundleURL` across refreshes. 
  - It should affect your app only if you were changing the `bundleURL` variable after the app is started. In this case, move the logic that updates the variable to the `bundleURL` function in the `AppDelegate`.
  
Please see the [full changelog](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for a complete list of breaking changes.
```

  }}>
  <View
    style={{
      flexDirection: 'row-reverse',
      backgroundColor: 'blue',
      flex: 1,
      marginLeft: 50,
    }}>
    <View
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'green',
        height: '50%',
        flex: 1,
        marginLeft: 50,
      }}
    />
  </View>
</View>
```

</td>
<td>

![Previous layout](../static/blog/assets/0.74-row-reverse-before.png)

</td>
<td>

![New layout](../static/blog/assets/0.74-row-reverse-after.png)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

:::

#### Support for `align-content: 'space-evenly'`

Yoga 3.0 brings support for [`alignContent: 'space-evenly'`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/align-content#space-evenly). `space-evenly` distributes the lines in a multi-line flex container using evenly spaced gaps, placed between line and container edges.

<figure>
  <img alt="Visual reference for alignContent behaviors" src="/blog/assets/0.74-align-content.png" width="360" />
  <figcaption><small>Source: [World Wide Web Consortium](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-align-3/#distribution-values)</small></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Support for `position: 'static'`

:::info
`position: 'static'` is supported only in the New Architecture.
:::

> Elements marked as [`position: 'static'`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#static) may not be offset, and are not considered when determining the [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) of an absolutely positioned element. This allows positioning an element relative to an ancestor which is not its direct parent.

Reviewer 10: This can be removed now due to some in-progress changes that make this not true since every static node is a flex item, which do form stacking contexts. It is true at the release of 0.74, but since it will change soon it is probably best to just not call it out

<table>
<tr>
<td width="350">

```jsx
<View
  style={{
    backgroundColor: 'blue',
    width: 200,
    height: 200,
    flexDirection: 'row',
  }}>
  <View
    style={{
      backgroundColor: 'orange',
      width: 50,
      height: 50,
      left: 10,
      position: 'relative',
      zIndex: 10,
    }}
  />
  <View
    style={{
      backgroundColor: 'red',
      width: 50,
      height: 50,
      position: 'static',
    }}>
    <View
      style={{
        backgroundColor: 'green',
        width: 25,
        height: 25,
        zIndex: 11,
        position: 'absolute',
      }}
    />
  </View>
</View>
```

</td>
<td width="300">

![Static zIndex Example](../static/blog/assets/0.74-zindex-example.png)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

React Native continues to default to `position: 'relative'` when no `position` is set.

### New Architecture: Bridgeless by Default

> In this release, we are making **Bridgeless Mode the default when the New Architecture is enabled**. You can learn more about our switch to Bridgeless as the default in this post (_coming soon_). To make the transition smoother we enhanced the interop layers to cover Bridgeless and worked with several libraries to make sure they will work in Bridgeless from day one.

Reviewer 8: Also, will the post that is linked here be live before this post goes out? Or should that be removed?

Reviewer 2: Very soon, says @cipolleschi, so I'm inclined to keep this placeholder.
